---
title: "Recap 1"
type: recap
number: 1.5
date: 2019-07-27
type: recap
---

The party began the day with a meeting with a mysterious half-elf who had ridden into their military camp a few hours before. The unnamed woman briefed the party on an urgent and highly secret mission to locate and if possible extract an orc prisoner of war from Thranish forces to their north. She explained the POW (Kagen) was the nephew of a key general of the Darguun army (Nordar). With the goblinoid nation of Darguun being a critical ally of Breland the woman disclosed there were concerns that the orc could be used by the Thrans as a powerful bargaining chip should they learn his identity. Worse yet General Nordar might feel the need to personally intervene, distracting the Darguun forces from their crucial task of fighting Cyrian forces to the east.
 
Captain Brigim (Gnome Female) shared her belief the half-elf was a member of the Nothics (an unflattering nickname for the Breland Military Intelligence) and disclosed she'd seen the dragon mark of House Medani when she was changing.
 
Kitted out with some equipment provided for the sortie the party made haste northwards into the no-mans-land between Breland and Thrane. Making their way to the road between Dry Gulch and Aeredale, the party came across a dead Thranish soldier apparently killed by a gnomish device known as a Hop Cutter (bounding mine). Using gust cantrip Cobalt was able to uncover some of the buried traps and Able was able to make one safe with her mage hand and tinkers tools.
 
Continuing on the party made it to the road and sneak past a live Thranish soldier before making camp a few miles west of Dry Gulch. At first light they set out with a mind to lay an ambush at the bridge, hoping to intercept the prisoner transport there. However as they entered the ruined town they found a platoon of Thranish forces camped there. A battle ensued after Cobalt obliterated one of the enemies with a chromatic orb. The last Thranish soldier standing yielded to the party and begged then to let her save her friend. RIP saved the fallen soldier while the rest of the party interrogated the survivor. She described how they had been attacked the previous day by a group disguised as Cyrians. She explained they had killed a few of the attacker but lost more of their own. She described how the attackers had fled south after taking the orc and goblin prisoners. Adrik examined the corpses of the fallen and discovered they seemed to be mercenaries from House Deneith.
 
The party headed south in hot pursuit of undercover Deneith mercenaries eventually tracking them to the former Brelish fort at Longdale. There the group attempted to persuade their way inside with a somewhat inconsistent story about being traveling healers… but whatever they were selling the mercenaries weren't buying. It did give Elora a chance to scout over the wall and confirm the prisoners were present. After waiting for nightfall the party attempted to sneak into the fort. Elora's first attempt went poorly before a plan was hatched for Adrik to toss the elf over the gate - a plan that went spectacularly well! With the gate open the rouge made her way over to the sleeping prisoners and set them free. Unfortunately the Orc and Bugbear proved less stealthy, knocking over their cages and alerting the guards. A deadly battle ensued with the party fighting their way back out of the fort.	With the party clear RIP popped back in and unleashed a devastating guiding bolt that obliterated the fearsome Karrnathi undead solider. The mercenary leader cast invisibility and the party fled northward.
 
A few miles into their escape a bright light erupted from the east. A bright column of white light shot into the heavens. The edges of the gleaming pillar faded through lilac, magenta, deep purple and into the ultraviolet. Elora was transfixed and continued to watch as a torus cloud rapidly expanded from ground zero, somewhere in the centre of Cyre. The searing light was eventually enough to blind Elora and the party faced the challenge of seeking cover; with Adrik slinging the lieutenant over his shoulders and carrying her to a crevice Able had found. As the explosion hit both Elora and the orc (Kagan) were killed, but revived by RIP. Able noticed her copper fob-watch (arcane focus) had turned black after the Mourning event. The sending charm was used and the party were ordered to meet half-elf back at the fort.
 
The half-elf debriefed and thanked the party for their service to Breland and while what had transpired would have to remain a secret she assured them she would make sure King Boranel would know what they had achieved…. A few weeks later they party was awarded the prestigious Iron Claw medal and informed they would be given a military pension of 30 gold per month when they left the army.

**End Date**: 7th Dravago (Morning)