---
title: "Recap 42"
type: recap
number: 42.5
date: 2021-04-27
---

**Start Date**: 8th Barrakas
 
We re-joined our party as they sat down to dinner with the great and the 'good' of Stormreach. Jonas showed off some of the artefacts in his collection, several of which seemed to have things wrong with them. The most notable however was a (apparently broken) Cubic Gate - a legendary artefact that the party had previously learned was one of the methods of planar travel! Jonas also announced he was nearly ready to show-off his latest acquisition. Wanting to get an early preview of the new item and to secure the Cubic Gate, Elora persuaded him to let them have it if she played the most amazing piece of music he'd ever heard. Jonas, thinking it unlikely the elf could perform to such a level, agreed (The DM didn't think so either and set the DC to 30+). Elora sat at the piano and produced the sheet music found in the Palace of Light, for the lost thirteenth symphony by Petilom… playing a phenomenal performance (32) with the one time fixed natural 20 for the piece. With tears of joy the Stormlord handed over the Gate and promised an early viewing of his new item.
 
After more small talk about possible future expeditions and attempts to find out if anyone knew of the location of Adrik's family the party retired to their rooms. Not long after heads hit pillows they were awoken by a crash and cursing from the ground floor. Rushing down to investigate they found Cordelia Lassites next to a broken vase. Questioned as to what she was doing there, she said she was going for a drink but got lost; a lie easily picked up by RIP and Elora. Able noticed a dislodged book on the shelf and surmised Cordelia had been trying to reach it. The gnome mage handed it down to herself and found it to be on the topic of 'One-Slab cryptography', used by the giants in the days of the Cul'Sir empire. Caught in her lie Cordelia explained she'd seen Katryl putting it back earlier and wanted to know what it was.
 
Elora attempted to further discern her motives by casting Detect Thoughts and learned she was embarrassed about being caught and wondering if they believed her about the book. There was little time to discuss that however as Jonas arrived in time to see Cordelia fly into a rage about the magical assault the bard had just inflicted on her. Attempting to make amends Elora tried to cover for Cordelia, saying she had broken the vase.
 
Everyone agreed they should try and find where Katryl was. Sadly it did not take long to find her corpse in the kitchen. A gruesome sight with the dwarf's head stoved in with some blunt instrument. RIP inspected the body and discovered she had died within the last hour of a stab wound to the heart. With his 29 medicine check he also noted the damage to the head was post-mortem and presumably to make resurrection more difficult and speak with dead impossible. Elora did make a brief attempt to reassemble the head but quickly gave up and bits kept slipping out!
 
With all the guests present other than Lacey Omaren, the group suggested to Stormlord Ortor Sel Shadra to lockdown the house while they investigated. Able and Adrik went to Lacey's room and found it empty. Adrik searched the wardrobe and discovered the murder weapons wrapped in a bloody sheet along with his cursed ring of protection! Elora and RIP searched Katryl's room and found a note (apparently written by Adrik) asking to meet her in the kitchen after everyone had gone to bed! Reunited Adrik confessed about finding the ring and about a disturbing dream he'd had that had left him with a feeling of shame on awakening. He had no memory of writing the note or being in Katryl's room. Abel reassured him that while she knew of some spells that could mind control people she knew not of one that would make them act so against their nature as to murder someone they liked. RIP inspected Adrik for signs of blood that might implicate him in the murder but found no more that the rest of the party had picked up at the scene.
 
RIP attempted a sending to Lacey but got no response, Elora's scry also failed. Abel cast detect magic, finding a pervasive magical effect permeating throughout the whole house! A scream from downstairs sent Pan with his scry camera running to investigate. The party was just about to follow when the rug rose up and engulfed Elora. A few seconds went by as everyone rallied round to free her - Adrik violently attacking the aberrant carpet and unknowingly hitting his friend, causing RIP to exclaim "now he's trying to kill Elora!"
 
Elora and RIP rushed downstairs where they found Ortor being dragged into the kitchen which had transformed into some kind of fleshly monstrosity! Abel and Adrik checked on his room looking to see if his sheets were missing; Abel with a mind to replace them to deflect suspicion, but the sheets were still there. Adrik joined the two downstairs in helping free the chief of the city watch from the kitchen while Abel continued the search for missing sheets. More drama erupted from the trophy room where Cordelia was found nose deep, sunk into a liquefied floor. Elora cast dimension door to get the Stormlord to safety and Abel discovered missing sheets in Jonas's room. The wizard dashed to re-join her companions, exclaiming "It's Jonas!"
 
A search was begun as the house itself seems to become hostile. Cordelia and Ortor were ushered to the front door and safety as RIP discover the locked door to the basement and mad whimpering's coming from below. RIP picked the lock and they descended to investigate. 
 
Jonas was found lying in front of an obelisk and pleaded with them "I'm sorry. Please you have to stop this…." before misty black tendrils enveloped him and brought him to his feet. Elora attempted to damage the obelisk but found her lightning bolt reflected back at her and the party lined up by the door! Deciding to focus back on bringing down Jonas a vicious battle ensued with their host. The Stormlord seemed surprisingly powerful and in combination with the obelisk made several attempts to dominate the minds of party members. He eventually succumb to the whirling cloud of broken rosé wine bottles animated by Abel. Not wishing to kill him, she asked RIP to stabilise the fallen lord…
 
**Loot**: ***Legendary Item*** A Cubic Gate (apparently not functioning). A book on giant one pads and a book of one pad keys.
 
**End Date**: 9th Barrakas (predawn)
 
**Viewers**: Stormreach & Dinner Party of horrors with legendary performance of Petilom lost 13th Symphony 22,412