---
title: "Recap 33"
type: recap
number: 33.5
date: 2020-11-21
---

{% include nav.html %}

**Start Date**: 24th Lharviron (Early Evening)

With RIP coming to terms with his new abilities, Pan checked in with him and explained about his experience of developing the Mark of Scribing (Sivis). He explained:

- They normally develop in mid-teen years
- They can be encouraged to manifest by trials the Houses put potential marked children through. These are normally unpleasant and put the individual in a position where they would want to use the powers the mark would give them.
- They can grow over time; both in size of the mark and its power.
- The houses take a very dim view on people with aberrant marks and might react poorly if they thought there was a new mark. He recommended RIP keep it hidden.

Pan suggested RIP try to cast a couple of spells the mark of Passage (Orien) would allow. Neither worked.

The party persuaded Twenty Two to allow them to borrow the lightning rail train to take the queen out of the Mournland. They agreed to uncouple the cars packed with materials the Reforged had salvaged from Metrol and only take a passenger car and the guard car. Able and RIP spent the evening rearranging the train while learning to drive it. A Reforged engineer named Adviser joined them in learning the controls.

Meanwhile Elora got down to some reading - over the hump with the heavy tomb she had been studying and grimly determined to finish it. Adrik continued to work on the forging of a sword, making some good progress with some encouragement from the elf, but struggling with the quenching process.

After resting Elora and Adrik hitched the Cannith Broom to a waggon and slowly set off to the Palace of Spirit - with Adrik pushing from the rear. Shava spoke to her daughter about the situation with refugees from Cyre and more about Meriele and Himo (Elora's father). Elora told her mum about her Aunt's affair with the halfling Greenbottle - Shava was shocked and said a few sizeist things about elves dating shorter races that did not endear her to Adrik. Elora defended her friend by telling her mother about Meriele and Adrik's mutual flirting. Shava quickly did a U-turn saying what a delightful young dwarf Adrik was.

When Shava learned what Pan was doing with the Scry camera she was deeply unhappy about the Queen being shown in such an undignified manor and he agreed to stop filming. Very slowly the petrified monarch was carried down the tower, loaded on the cart and with all the guard pushing moved back to the Orien station. 

With the Queen and guards on board by midday the crew in the engine car engaged the elemental motors and started pulling out of the city. RIP placed his new eyeball on the front of the train for a better view of the track ahead. A sending was received from Lysee saying she'd meet them at Eastmear Bridge and some people from Cannith wanted a word. As they neared the undead infested district around the Palace of Earth scores of Mourners started to flock towards the noisy train. Elora and Adrik took pot-shots at them while Able cranked up the speed. However as the train left the city walls and went under the bridge at Eastgate several undead jumped onto the train.

Battle ensued. Highlights included Abel casting a super charged lightning bolt through the thaumic field generated by the train engines and obliterating the undead at the front. Elora climbing on the roof and then polymorphing into a T-Rex while straddling the fast moving rail. Adrik and EloRex becoming frightened of one of the Mourners. And finally Abel levitating the boss off the train and sending it flying into the jaws of EloRex.

The next hour went by uneventfully - other than Elora having to barf up an entire undead she had consumed as the rex.

It was only as Abel slowed the train as they approached the Eastmear river (not wanting to coast out onto the phased out bridge) that RIP noticed a dozen humanoids quickly approaching the train. Jumping onto the footplates they burst into both carriages demanding the queen be handed over 'or else'. With a surprising turn of loyalty the party decided to risk their lives and take on the attackers. RIP cast Anti-life shell in the cabin and kept the intruders away from himself and the controls. Abel made a novel use of misty step by stepping through the periscope. Elora got to try her new Sword of Resonance and Adrik got his new Stormbrewers Bracers crackling with energy! 

Despite the attackers managing to down several of the Queen's Guard (including Shava) with their devastating attacks and huge swarm of spiritual weapons they were eventually defeated. The last of them taking some kind of suicide pill to avoid capture. Elora rushed to revive her mum and the party looked down at the dragonmarked necks of the attackers.

**End Date**: 25th Lharviron (Early afternoon)

**Viewers**:
- 24th Lharvion - Mourning Glory 'Heroes in the Storm' (Feature length episode) 17,092 viewers
 - Destruction of Palace of Spirit! Tied up animated armour. Deals with a Devil. Horrors of the conjoined warforged. Alchemical Skunks and Tiny Adrik. The Magebreeding Tanks. The Overseer! Depetrifying Queen's Guard. The Cannith Broom. The Lightning rail powered up.

- 25th Lharvion - still filming
 - Fights on the lightning rail train.