---
title: "Recap 17"
type: recap
number: 17.5
date: 2020-04-11
---

{% include nav.html %}

**Start Date**: 17th Nymm (late afternoon)

With an enormous allosaurus bearing down on the party we began the session in initiative. Sas gathered up the mounts in an effort to get them to safety while Elora found herself unexpectedly on the frontline as one of the beasts leapt at her, knocking her to the ground and dealing a fearsome amount of damage. Adrik stepped up battleaxe in hand as more of the creatures emerged and started rushing the party. From a safe distance Able distracted two of the beasts with hypnotic pattern and RIP used bane before the group wailed on the two remaining dinos - dropping them in a couple of rounds. With a flock of quetzals arriving on the scene the party beat a hasty retreat and sneaked past the giant proto-birds, leaving them to their meal of freshly butchered allosaurus. 

Camp was made at a watering hole Sas claimed to be safe. RIP magically produced some vegetables for the mounts and some nutritious paste for the party. Faced with the unappetizing meal most decided to go with their rations, with only loyal Adrik eating the paste. During her watch Elora noticed an injured small dinosaur meekly approaching the campfire. The elf tried offering it some of RIP's paste before trying to grab it to heal its injury. Perhaps mistaking the attempts to claw and bite her as the normal struggles of a wild animal she failed to notice the two dozen other dinosaurs surrounding the camp. Roused from his tent Sas asked why Elora was cuddling a velociraptor and the pack attacked.

With most of the party woken by the shouts and roars, RIP opened with a spell he had been wanting to try for weeks - spirit guardians! Filling the camp with a cloud of flying eyeballs unleashed radiant energy on the pack of raptors - killing half of them before the others had so much as got their boots on. Not wanting to be out done Elora showed off her new spell - a lightning bolt killing several more. Adrik finally woken, rushed from his tent in a state of undress swinging his battle axe with both hands and cutting down a few more. Able peaked out her tent, spotted the eyeball and unleashed a few magic missiles leaving just a handful of raptors standing. The remaining beasts fled having hardly even had the chance to nip at the party.

With the new dawn a more peaceful day was had on the road. By midday they reached a Halfling camp and stopped in to see if they could barter for some food. Anace and Wiree welcomed the party to their camp and offered food and drink in exchange for stories from the west. RIP laid on an impressive looking, but bland tasting, banquet which was supplemented with some hot sauce and Barberry wine. Sas encouraged Elora to ask about "something stronger" and Anace offered the chance to try some "Toad", much to Wiree and Adrik's disapproval. A box of jars containing bright blue living toads was produced and the Halfling explained licking one would connect them with their spirit animal. Elora and Sas agreed while Able and RIP observed. The toads had little effect on Sas but Elora saw a pale spectral hound, which in her mind. As she felt a great connection with the animal, it stepped to and merged into her body - she spent the next hour running around on all fours playing fetch with RIP. The sober members of the party were perplexed by Elora's antics but intrigued to see the effect it had on Anace, as a few minutes after he licked his toad he transformed into a vulture and flew off into the night… returning an hour later complaining of the taste of carrion in his mouth. Persuaded by Elora it was a cultural experience (and absolutely not a recreational drug) both Able and Adrik had a go - but on this occasion neither met their spirit animal. Both Elora and Sas purchased a toad off the halflings for further "spiritual exploration".

Tipped off about some quetzal nests a day east along their path the group made a stop to collect some, with a promise of 1000 gold for any intact eggs collected for Sas. Faced with a 180ft climb a good deal of planning was made before Adrik set out using the rope of climbing while trailing a knotted rope behind him for a quick getaway in the form of an improvised zip-line. The climb went great! At the top he could see three nests; two occupied and a third vacant but with an egg in it! The dwarf quietly repositioned himself before making a dash for the egg. Unfortunately a loose rock alerted the giant flying dinos. Undeterred, Adrik went for it! Grabbing the egg and tucking it into his satchel before making it back to the zip-line. One of the quetzal seeing him make his move swooped in and pecked at him dealing a huge amount of damage with its gargantuan beak.

RIP braced the zip-line, Elora and Able readied offensive spells and Adrik positioned his axe over the zip-line, starting to slide down to safety! But the bumpy knots on the conjoined ropes proved to be a problem and about halfway down his descent he lost his grip… to the horror of his friends falling 140ft, taking 55 damage and falling unconscious. Able let her prepared spell go and rushed to pour a greater healing potion down her fallen friend's throat.

The two quetzals in pursuit of the stolen egg dived down. The first was one-shotted by Elora's new favourite spell (lightning bolt). RIP damaged the other with an enfeeble before it was humanely euthanized by Able. With Adrik healed up and the coast now clear, Able mounted the luggage and levitated it to the nests where she was able to secure the remaining two eggs.

**End Date**: 19th Nymm (early evening)

**Loot**: 2 Eggs - exchanged with Sas for 500g each