---
title: "Recap 35"
number: 35.5
date: 2020-12-19
---

**Start Date**: 25th Lharviron (Early Evening)
 
As our party set off on the train back to Metrol Elora attempted to scry on Toquill. The vision coalesced into one showing their patron in a kitchen, apparently cleaning up some dirty plates. Elora recognised it as Dha'iteag's house. After a moment Toquill turned to the scry sensor and addressed Elora directly; Asking her if they would be stopping by for supper or breakfast? Surprised he could see the sensor she blurted out a reply of "supper" before remembering he could not hear her. Knowing they'd be back in Metrol in an hour or two they agreed on supper and RIP replied with sending.
 
A little under an hour into their journey several clunks were heard as creatures attached themselves onto the bottom of the train. Elora peeked her head under the carriage to see several crab-like creatures and quickly polymorphed one into a snail. After she informed the group of the discovery (and Pan got his salt) they were a little slow to act and the crabs were able to break the coupling holding the guard car onto the rear of the train. Abel brought the train to a stop and reversed it back to the detached carriage where the crabs were eventually dispatched.
 
Unfortunately the coupling for the rear carriage was beyond repair and no suitable replacement could be found. Forced to leave the guard (and mechanical break) carriage behind they set off again at a slightly slower pace.
 
RIP spotted a light approaching down the track ahead and barely had time to call out a warning about the oncoming train. Abel hit the elemental breaks. The spectral train passed straight through them. There were signs of a fight going on, but it was gone before they could see any details. For a moment it seemed like the event had passed, until Able realised the elemental motors were running out of control! Looking out the front windows two orbs of elemental lightning seemed to have attached themselves above the motors - causing them to run at maximum speed. RIP tried to shut down the engines to no avail.
 
The party climbed onto the roof of the engine car to deal with the entities.	The first one took a beating from our heroes until RIP Banished it - hoping when it reappeared it would be left far behind the moving train. As the other entity charged up its main attack the party had helpfully lined up and took a devastating 50 lighting damage. Elora was knocked unconscious and several of the others were badly bloodied. Fortunately Adrik was able to destroy the remaining enemy and Elora was saved as the train was brought to a stop. 
 
Knowing they were close to their destination but also magically spent and low on health the group took an hour to patch up their wounds. Abel cast her rope trick to make a safe pocket dimension to rest in. 
 
Back in Metrol they explained the loss of the carriage to Twenty Two. She was understanding and relived to have them and the train back safely. They explained they had a few tasks still to do in the city before heading out with the Reforged to Sachem. RIP used sending to inform Toquil they would have to see him at breakfast and a long rest was taken in the safety of the lightning rail station. 
 
In the morning - across the city in Dhi'iteag's house our heroes sat down for a delicious breakfast with Toquill. Abel immediately asked him if he was a dragon… and he confirmed that he was! He talked about the Prophetic Epidiascope, explaining it was used by Dragons to view parts of the Draconic Prophecy. The device connected back to something called the Codex in Io'Lokar on Argonnessen. He explained how the prophecy was divined from portents such as the movement of the moon or the precise second of the first fall of snow on a given year at a given location. The dragons believed that because the world was created by the progenitors a sufficiently detailed study of the world gave them access to read the script that it ran according to. Several members of the party grumbled about free will and not liking predestiny. Toquill confessed there were sometimes problems with determining which parts of the prophecy applied to any given time or event and it was often only after something had happened it could be linked up with the benefit of hindsight.
 
Asked why he had done everything he had done so far; Toquill told the story of the giants of Xen'drik. The giants who the dragons had bestowed the power of magic some 100,000 years ago. The giant civilisation (The Cul'Sir) had flourished for 60,000 years until they were invaded by beings from Dal Quor (Plane of Dreams). A devastating war erupted that eventually lead to the defeat of the Quori and the severing of links between Eberron and Dal Qour (and the destruction or disappearance of the moon linked to that plane). But seeing how the giants had enslaved the elves and now looked to spread over the rest of Eberron the dragons regretted empowering them so, and set about destroying the Cul'Sir giants and much of the continent of Xen'drik.
 
Skipping forward to 16,000 years ago Toquill told the second of his stories; once again the dragons had seen the potential of a people in the prophecy. This time it was the orcs and goblins of the Dhakaani empire in Khorvaire. This time the dragons did not involve themselves directly - merely observed from a distance. Once again a war came from the outer planes. This time Outsiders from Xoriat (the realm of madness). Not wanting to repeat what had happened on the southern continent the dragons stayed out of the war and eventually the Outsiders were defeated by a clan of orcish druids known as the Kech Shaarat. That was 4000 years ago but it was only in recent times with the start of the Last War the dragons started to see problems with the Prophecy. They believe the cut the Kech Shaarat had made with the plane of madness had not been a clean one and it had imbalanced the mechanisms on which the world worked. It was the belief of the dragons that lead to the event known as the Mourning and they predicted worse to come. Toquil believed our Heroes were the seekers prophesied and would mend this mistake!
 
When asked about the sphere of annihilation Toquill confirmed he had written the letter to them three years ago and at the time did not know who they were. Asked if he had located another he said "no, but though Xen'Drik would be a good place to find one". Asked if they should give the SOA to Sachem he said "it would soon become apparent what you needed it for'' and reiterated the need for the dragons to not get involved or risk a repeat of the mistakes of 100,000 years ago. As Elora asked if he could teleport them across the city to the Palace of Earth he popped into the kitchen to get some more tea, and disappeared. 
 
Looking over their to-do-list the party elected to visit the Palace of Shadow next. Taking the broom over the walls they dispelled the magic locking the outer doors and found scores of dead Cyrian agents inside. Realising her father may be among the dead in here Elora uneasily looked around, finding the body of her interrogation instructor (Reuban Maartel) but no one else she recognised. The main part of the place contained thirteen rooms, each apparently dedicated to intelligence gathered from different nations on Khorvaire; but each protected by permanent magical barriers that Abel knew could not be dispelled without the disintegrate spell. 
 
Moving on to the Palace of Flame several of the magebreed humans were found - still apparently alive but inactive. No good quality weapons or armour were found within, mostly reports on military shortages and unpaid invoices from House Cannith and other suppliers. Adrik found one such invoice from Caebrek & Daughters, for preliminary excavations at site indigo. Adrik explained to the party this was his family's business and described how they had tried to keep him out of the war and working for them, even making some payments to avoid him being drafted. He said he eventually had run away and changed his name to join up and fight for Breeland. Looking at the new company name he contemplated how he might not be welcome should he find them again. Finally three locations for Warforged colossus were located; one of which had been targeted at the 21st Light Foot Infantry near Vathirond (the regiment the party were in during the Last War). Elora was shocked to learn they were sending these weapons against targets where they knew they had agents without warning them!
 
Three known locations:
* Barren Keep - targeted to Rhukaan Draal (Capital of Darguun)
* Kalazart - targeted to 21st Light Foot Infantry near Vathirond
* Fort Bright - targeted to Karrlakton (Karnath border town)
 
With the evening drawing in, the group returned to the Palace of Storm to investigate the library. Notably Adrik found the Archmage's diary which detailed the event in the city on the night of the Mourning, how he became stuck as a beholder and lost the ability to depetrify the Queen. It also gave more details of the mage-breeding programme.
 
RIP checked in on the conjoined-Warforged and found it was no longer there.
 
With night fallen the party headed up to the top floor to inspect the telescope. They found it was capable of tracking Eberron's twelve moons if the appropriate symbol were selected. Abel first looked at Lharvion (The Eye), the moon associated with Xoriat (The realm of madness). It looked grey with a gash or chasm across it. But as she engaged the 'Shard' lens the scene shifted… what looked like a sphere now looked like a hole and contained within it a landscape of impossible geometry. For once her intellect worked against her as she understood what she was looking at and was driven to madness! She attacked the nearest target which turned out to be the well armoured Adrik. When her quarterstaff clearly would not get past his armour she tried magic missile!.. Counterspell from Elora!.. Before everyone got the timeout with Silence from RIP! After a few moments the gnome regained her faculties and apologised. 
 
A couple of hours were spent inspecting the other moons, cross referencing them with Abel's book and examining how they looked through the shard lens.
 
**End Date**: 26th Lharviron (Nearly Midnight)
**Loot**: Arch mage's diary
 
**Viewers**: 17,132 (funds credited to account)
25th Lhavion - Fight on train vs Mourners. Fight on train vs Assassins. Eastmear Bridge crossing. No filming during meetings. Return to Metrol - fight with crabs and electrical entities.
 
26th Lharviron - No footage near Toquill's house - Palace of Shadow. Palace of Fire. Telescope? 